---
title: "Optimizational Paradigm for Supervised Machine Learning"
layout: post
mathjax: true
---

Let there be Training Data (covariates, labels) $(x_{i}, y_{i})$ for $i \in \{1, 2, ... n\}$.  
Let $f_{\theta}(\cdot)$ be our model, where $\vec{\theta}$ is the parameter vector.  
And $L(\vec{y}, \hat{y})$ is the loss function.  

We minimize the empirical risk:  
$$
\hat{\theta} = \underset{\theta}{\operatorname{arg\,max}}\frac{1}{n} \sum\limits_{i=1}^{n} L(\vec{y}, f_{\theta}(x_{i}))
$$

Where:  
$$
\hat{y} = f_{\hat{\theta}}(x)
$$

## Goal:
- **Good performance** in the real world on new $x$ (i.e., $x$ we didn't see).  
- **Low generalization error**: We assume the $x$'s we didn't see are drawn from some **distribution**.  
  $$
  E_{X, Y}[L(y, f_{\hat{\theta}}(x))]
  $$
- We **believe** the distribution of $X$ and $Y$ exists.  

---

## Complications

### 1. Don't Have Access to $P(X, Y)$
**Solution**: Collect a test set $(x_{\text{text i}}, y_{\text{text i}})$, which we never touch after collection, except to calculate:  
$$
\frac{1}{n_{\text{test}}} \sum\limits_{i=1}^{n_{\text{test}}} L(\vec{y}, f_{\theta}(x_{\text{test i}}))
$$

---

### 2. The Loss We Care About Is Not Compatible with the Optimizer
**Example**: The optimizer requires derivatives, but the loss is not differentiable or has zero derivatives.  

**Solution**: Use a **surrogate loss** that works, such as:  
- Logistic Loss or Hinge Loss for binary classification.  
- Cross Entropy Loss for multi-class classification.  

> **Warning**: Only change the training loss function, **not** the test loss.

---

### 3. Huge Values in $\hat{\theta}$: Overfitting
**Solution A**: Add a **regularizer** during training.  
$$
\hat{\theta} = \underset{\theta}{\operatorname{arg\,max}}\frac{1}{n} \sum\limits_{i=1}^{n} L(\vec{y}, f_{\theta}(x_{i})) + R(\theta)
$$

- Example: **Ridge Regularization**.  
- Transition from **Maximum Likelihood Estimation (MLE)** to **Maximum A Posteriori Estimation (MAP)**.  
- Introduces a hyperparameter.  

**Solution B**: Perform **hyperparameter search**.  
- Hold out additional data (validation set) to evaluate how well you're adjusting the hyperparameter.

---

### 4. Optimizer Might Have Its Own Hyperparameters
**Example**: Gradient Descent Learning Rate.  
$$
\theta_{t+1} = \theta_t − \eta \nabla_{\theta} L_{\text{train}, \theta}
$$
